### ART HISTORY:
#### 06/29/01 1:24:16 PM

***

- Art history or the philosophy of art is a conglomeration of several different fields of endeavor.  Researching art history leads one to all sorts of strange places.  One can start with aesthetics and end up with semiotics.  Such is the nature of the slippery art of art history.  Art history is an art and a science and therefore is rather opaque when you want it to be clear, clear when you desperately need its opacity.
- What an art historian wishes to do is trace the logic of these various fields that make up art history.  In the end, it’s hard to say where one should begin in such a study as this.  One must necessarily end up having studied all the fields linked to art history.  One, then, should always begin with art history itself as a science and follow it through the manifold stages of its development.
- Art is closely aligned with Spirit.  Even more so with the creative spirit.  After primarily touching the subject of art history itself, the art historian will want to deal with the mind in which all of these concepts exist.  Concepts can exist where they want to, but in the study of art, concepts exist in the mind of the viewer and student, certain concepts which we wish to explicate here and now.
- The first concept in art is the concept of the Other.  One is safe as an individual until the concept of the Other comes along and makes the viewer shrink to a pure singularity opposed to the immense and almost infinite sphere of the Other.  Take a trip to the museum, for example.  The viewer will see many paintings by many artists.  The first realization is that these painters are not the viewer, they are outside his person.  The works of art themselves are another entity in the sphere of the Other.  A closer view reveals that the museum is run by a group of individuals like the viewer, because an exhibition doesn’t just appear out of nowhere.
- The second concept could very well be the concept of form and content.  It’s arbitrary.  Where the first concept is the Other, it isn’t clear what the second concept is.  In reality, the concepts aren’t numbered.  They come and go in different mixtures and it doesn’t really matter which comes first.  For the sake of the medium of writing, we’ll give arbitrary numbers to the concepts of art history.
- If one decides to take form and content as the second concept of art history, one is going to be involved in a long story because form and content is a vast field.  Take a singular painting for example.  There’s reading involved.  The viewer must read the painting, much like one would read a book.  Take a look at the shapes, the colors, the intimate language of the piece.  This is the sphere of art criticism.  Art criticism is not art history, but it fits within the confines of art history, which are large.
- Another important sphere in art history is aesthetics.  Where art criticism deals with the form and content and historical background of a work of art, aesthetics deals with the aesthetic experience.  Aesthetics is a form of phenomenology of the spirit.  This must be emphasized: art history is a nearly all-encompassing science.  Art is human, it encircles all that is human, all that is scientific, all that is real.  Art history is as much of a psychology as it is a logic.  The art historian works with tracing the lines that make up this slippery science.
- Here is a possible list of subject headings for an essay on art history: 1)What is art; 2)The functions of art; 3)Evaluating works of art; 4)Different forms of art [painting, sculpture, architecture, music, theatre, literature, film, dance]; 5)The Ancient World; 6)The Hellenistic age; 7)The Roman period; 8)Judaism and Early Christianity; 9)Byzantium and the Rise of Islam; 10)The Early Middle Ages; 11)The High Middle Ages; 12)The Late Middle Ages; 13)The Early Renaissance; 14)The High Renaissance and Mannerism; 15)The Enlightenment; 16)The Baroque Age; 17)The Romantic Age; 18)Modernism; 19)Post-Modernism.
- However, we are not here concerned with that type of study.  In our list, we would have the Industrial Revolution, Capitalism, Symbolism, Semiotics of visual culture, Images, the Unconscious mind, the Art Business, Museums, Value, The concepts of art history… for our study is a synchrony, not a diachrony.  The first list is what traditional art history tries to accomplish.  If you notice, there’s no room for the mind, for the intellect that contemplates works of art and art history itself.  Contemplation of art history is what we have thus far been doing in this essay.  Art history must first be evaluated.
- We know what art is.  If not, the definition of art would be our first enterprise.  Since art as a concept is widely accepted and known, we can begin with art history as a concept.  Art history is the study of art, of what makes art art, of the discursive formations of art through history.  Art is an ongoing discourse; art is a dialectic between the present and the past.  The fact that art exists in the present means that we must perform a synchrony, because the linearity of art is broken when it shines through the prism of the present.  In the present, the past is broken up and scattered about all over the ground.  To study a period in art history is to study it as it exists in the present.  We are always relating things back to the present and the future.  The past in art history is not the most important issue.  What we are trying to do is teach students about art in the present, because students exist in the present, not the past.  That’s why in art history we would study the impact of the Industrial Revolution on today’s society.  But in that sort of study, a diachrony takes place nonetheless.  Art history, then, is composed of both a synchrony and a diachrony.
- What is history, then?  History is the study of history.  Every science begins by studying itself.  The rest follows.  History is the study of how historical events take place, how they are resolved, their impact on today’s reality.  In this sense, art history is a phenomenology because it deals with events in the mind, of phenomena and phenomena’s impact on the human psyche and environment.
- How is art history to be taught, then?  That is a good question.  Maybe it needn’t be taught.  Perhaps art history is taught all the time by many different viewers, in the instant of its temporal impact.  But I would rather relate to art as construction of concepts in neuroactive events, as mathematico-musical form-creation, displacement engineering acts of fashion, theatres of the inner multimedia dimensions that are the human heart in beating drama worth the energy involved in the constitution of his or her normal-operative sentences in the gridlock of daily happenings.  Sure, there’s a chronology, I’m facing that reality.  There is a dispersal when dream and reality collides, an abstract formation of concept-parts and planar theory advertisements in the entourage of a crystal kernel Vision Core where ideas are lain amongst the figural fabric in the memory banks for further decoding and recoding, detailing, mapping where the studious surrealist operates, dealing and wheeling in his or her opera of non-constitutive modulation-hailing, courteous in the cinema where odds and ends meet at night to create a tangent.
- Once the groundwork of art history is disclosed, it is possible to endeavor in the various schools that meet under the main heading ‘art history’.  These are architecture, sculpture, multimedia, semiotics of visual culture, philosophy of art, film theory, psychology of art, archaeology, art business, literature, the physics of light, color theory, the eye, the ear, aesthetics, ethics, the art of gimmickry, theory of concept formation, the art of painting, illustration, engraving, the camera, projectors, film criticism, history, phenomenology, auto-genesis and the instantiated ontology of artistic creation… the list goes on.
- The threshold on which we stand mid interior and exterior [of the self] is very unstable; in an attempt at pinning it down we follow the motion of a point on an arc panning circularly about a circle which is the rink in which our strange art historical circus takes place.  Figurally, that’s the shape it takes, a persona, a thing-being [conceptual persona].  Art history’s opacity is needed when it becomes too imagal, when the underlying concepts fade into the murk of unknowing.  And the virtue of agnosticism is best seen in the art historians struggle with piecing an imaginary puzzle made up of Reason’s minglings with itself and its environment.  Again, we breach the bounds of phenomenology and psychology, ending up reciting verbatim the functional processes and gyrating currents of the mind naked in the ambience of contemplation.
- Second stage of art history: the object in art.  This is where we start seeing the different stylistic trends in art history.  When our image-thought of the object in everyday life changes, a new stylistic trend follows.  The same happens on the religious plane when useful objects become houses of worship.  The poor neurotic can’t get enough of textures in his or her obsession with touching.
- So what are the necessary materials for an art historian to do his work?  What are the necessary materials of the art history student or even the artist?  The artist uses her mind and body, her soul, his paintbrush, his canvas, her paint; the student of art history needs a lexicon of the concepts of art history from which the database of famous paintings should develop.  The database of images should be created in such a way that headings are given with examples, headings which would sport the highlights of the lexicon of technical terms.  Otherwise, a database of images is not nearly as practical.
- Galleries, museums, institutes, centers; subway stations, television, radio, internet.  Another list for an art historian [practising art criticism] could be: Angle, Area, Boundary, Cast, Color, Content, Contour, Contrast, Depth, Dimension, Direction, Dynamic, Effect, Energy, Focus, Form, Frame of Reference, Function, Gravity, Harmony, Horizon, Hue, Intensity, Light, Lightness, Line, Magnitude, Meaning,  Measure, Motif, Motion, Plane, Point, Position, Quality, Representation, Saturation, Shade, Shape, Size, Space, Structure, Subject, Texture, Time, Tone, Value, Volume, Weight.
- It’s difficult to know where to start when writing a textual analysis in art history.  We could easily begin with philosophy, with stating the tenets of an artist’s philosophy, or we could start with a statement on color, on economics, on psychology.  A hugely undiscovered aspect of art history is the construction of concepts in the mind and the erecting of a metaphysical plane on which to construct art experiences.  It’s about population caught in conflicts in events, environs shaped by human contingency, the shapeless horizons of non-objective representational inaccuracy: abstraction.
- I’m trying to see the different approaches possible for the teaching of art history.  Some teachers use glossaries of art theory terms, some are of art criticism terms, other teachers use dictionaries of art movements, others dictionaries of famous artists.  The greatest dictionary is the dictionary of visual culture, of art history that encompasses all the tributaries flowing from the main vein of erudition in art.  I have only seen one such dictionary and it was online.
- Rhetoric, of all things, gives us insight into art history.
- Rhetoric is that which speaks:
  - INVENTION: which proofs or demonstrations were chosen to explicate the particular topic under consideration.
  - DISPOSITION: how the oration or argument is ordered.
  - ELOCUTION: how eloquent is the speech, how well chosen the words, how many and in what manner literary devices are employed.
- The Building was equated with rhetoric, with the oratorical, the conversational, humanlike tone…
- Even the Parthenon uses illusion… Christian medieval aesthetics, there were three reasons why images were used in churches: for the instruction of simple people, because they are instructed by them as if by books, so that the mystery of the Incarnation and the examples of the saints may be the more active in our memory through being represented daily to our eyes, to excite feelings of devotion, these being aroused more effectively by things seen than by things heard.
- The holy image is read in terms of context, caption, and code [and concept].  Iconodules [worshippers of images] and iconoclasts [breakers of images]
- Man makes a shadow to scare away demons [St.John of Damascus “Devils have feared the saints and have fled from their shadow.”  The shadow relates to a man, so an image relates to its subject.  And both the shadow and the image carry some of the force of their originals: If properly used, they might frighten off a demon.  Relate to Surrealism and the Cinema, the Projector… Vapors/Abysms…
- A New Theory of Vision, pun, a new vision of theory… art theory, concepts in the mind: Renaissance [proportion, perspective, color, construction, building, whatever, research them], Medieval [dark, graven images, totem and taboo]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- Art history.  What is it?  What are the forms of art history research?  What makes up these forms?  The forms of art history must rightly be called the logic of art history, and the logic of art history falls under the heading the philosophy of art history.  Our discourse, then, follows from these points and leads us straight to the problem of mediation and technique in art history practise.  This text, however, is in the vicinity of film theory, because it is a visual text, a text of pictorial examples, moving pictures, text in cinema.  So we have the basic forms of art history under philosophy, and a textual cinema, cinematic prose, expositing the themes of art history pictorially.  Logic, philosophy, art historiography and film will be our four chapter headings.
- Logic of art history:
- In this chapter, I would show the practise of art history pictorially, with imagal examples of people working in the field of art history, doing research, and composing an art history text.  By the basic shapes of art history, those of shuffling, of expositing, of redoubling, I would come to the philosophy of art history which is the next chapter.
- Philosophy of art history:
- In this chapter I would discuss the metaphysic of art history, of the concepts of art history operating in the mind of the art historian and public reader.  I would explain the Dialectic of the philosophy of art history, style which is discursive, and the physics of art history [sight, physics of light, of wave motion].  I would include a thesis on a few of the Euclidian Isometries, namely, Rotation and Translation, explicating how they close in on one another to make up the basis on which art history stands.
- The art history text:
- In this section I would discuss the aesthetic experience of art history textuality.  The text would become more and more cinematic, exposing more and more viable images on which art history also stands.  I would give a briefing of the iconology of art, write a quick lexicon of art history terms and how the react with one another.  I would close the essay with a few thoughts on art history’s history and clench it up with ideas on the future of art history.
---------------------------------------
- What do you think?
- Three Common Modes
  - Inquiry 
  - Observation 
  - Substantiation
- Three Kinds of Modes
  - Modes of Activity - As in Attention, Pace, Mood, Intention, Behavior, Approach, Gesture, etc. 
  - Modes of Form - As in Style, Technique, Concept, Method, Theory, Fashion, Way, etc. 
  - Modes of Relationship - As in Contingency, Arrangement, Association, Category, Principle, Reference, etc.
- Copyright, Judiciary concerns, 
- PRAGMATICS, SEMANTICS, SYNTACTICS: Charles W. Morris developed a three-part structure to clarify the nature of language. "Pragmatics" he defined as the study of the circumstances in which a communication takes place, ranging from purely material conditions like the presence or absence of noise to more intangible conditions like personal motivations or the relations between speaker and audience. Pragmatics is thus very close to context. "Semantics" he defined as the study of meaning in signs prior to their use in a particular statement. While this might suggest that a parallel can be drawn between semantics and iconography, Morris's term is more abstract and closer in meaning to interpretant and paradigm (sense 3), both of which can be embraced within the term content. "Syntactics" Morris defined as the study of rules of syntax or grammar (see also code [sense 2]), which to some extent is embraced within the term form.
